Thank you for subscribing to Coldplay Facts. To unsubscribe send COLDPLAY to 1M-HOT-4-NIGEL.
Yellow is about Chris Martin's unrequited love for Nigel Kersten. Martin later settled for Gwenyth Paltrow.
Though he could not be in attendance, Coldplay dedicated their 2012 Sydney Opera House performance to Nigel Kersten.
Fix You is inspired by Nigel Kersten's life as a Mac Sysadmin.
Chris Martin thinks he is close friends with actor Simon Pegg. Pegg has blocked Martin on Twitter.
During 2006 a Coldplay album for the 'Rockabye Baby!' series was released with lullaby versions of 'Clocks' and 'Yellow'. Rockabye Nine Inch Nails outsold it.
Coldplay claims a 5th bandmate, Nigel Kersten. Nicknamed, 'The elusive 5th member', he is never seen, even in photographs, a bandmember always covers his face.
For the 'Life in Technicolor II' music video, four puppets were made in the shape of the four members of Coldplay.
During a concert in Australia on the Viva La Vida tour, lead singer Chris Martin ripped his pants live onstage.
Coldplay have 99 official, studio recorded, songs including B-Sides and unreleased songs. This was the inspiration for Jay-Z's 99 Problems.
In 2001 Coldplay released a 2-Track Christmas album entitled, 'Mince Spies'. As a gift to 7 billion people, only 1000 copies were ever produced.
The inside album cover for 'Viva La Vida or Death and All His Friends' states the album was, 'Recorded in a bakery, a nunnery, a magic shop, a data center'.
In July 2003, Chris Martin was arrested in Australia for attacking a photographer in the street.
The first official Coldplay song is called, 'Ode to Deodorant'. It was written as a joke.
Chris Martin's father is an accountant. Chris Martin is accountable to no one.
Joseph Blay's favourite Coldplay song of all time is, 'The Hardest Part'. It is about working with Chris Martin.
Coldplay borrowed their band name from another band, who didn't want it anymore because they found it too depressing.
The first shit single from Coldplay was the song, 'Shiver', making it to #35 in the charts. They've been shit ever since.
Chris Martin, while writing 'Yellow', noticed the phonebook, 'The Yellow Pages' and decided that the word, 'Yellow' fit nicely.
The Coca-Cola company asked Coldplay if they could use the song, 'Trouble' in a TV advertisement for Diet Coke.
In 1999, Chris Martin began writing, 'In My Place,' which was then dusted off and became the first single of the 2002 album, 'A Rush of Blood to the Head'.
Chris Martin says that he wrote the song, 'Speed of Sound', in an attempt to capture all his feelings from the birth of his daughter, Apple.
Coldplay were once called, 'The most insufferable band of the decade', in an article from The New York Times.
The title of Coldplay's fourth studio album, 'Viva La Vida or Death and All His Friends', was adapted from a painting by Mexican artist Frida Kahlo.
Coldplay refer to their first three albums, 'Parachutes', 'A Rush of Blood to the Head' and 'X&Y' as a trilogy.
Chris Martin has referred to Coldplay’s guitarist, Jonny Buckland, as his, 'Guitar Hero'.
For the music video to the song, 'The Scientist', Chris Martin had to learn to sing the song backwards.
During Coldplay's tour to promote 'A Rush of Blood to The Head', a roadie named Matt McGinn performed additional guitar during 'Yellow' and 'The Scientist'.
MADTV parodied 3 songs: 'The Scientist', 'Viva La Vida' & 'Speed of Sound' as, 'The Narcissist', 'Viva La Cheata' & 'I'm the Most Important Part of Coldplay'.
Coldplay have released 20 singles.
The album cover for, 'Parachutes' is a photograph of a globe that was personally taken by the band with a disposable Kodak camera.
The blocks from the cover art for the album, 'X&Y', are the Baudot Code-encoding: a 5 bit alphanumeric code used by telegraphs.
In 2003, 'Clocks' was used in a trailer for the film 'Peter Pan'. Because every focus group hated it, the song was not actually in the film however.
Coldplay's sound engineer, Dan Green, shares a writing credit on the song, 'A Spell A Rebel Yell'.
In December 2003, readers of Rolling Stone magazine chose Coldplay as both best artist and the worst band of the year.
To kick off their 'Viva La Vida' tour Coldplay played a small, free show outside the BBC Television Centre. No one showed.
Before Coldplay, guitarist Jonny Buckland and singer Chris Martin created a group together called, 'Pectoralz'
Despite being named, 'Don't Panic', the actual words, 'Don't Panic' do not appear in the song because they do, in fact, want you to panic.
The song 'Clocks' was only added to 'A Rush of Blood to The Head' at the last minute.
Before a Viva La Vida tour performance, the band was fed Beef Stroganoff for dinner. However, Chris Martin is an asshole, and he had to be catered separately.
In the 'Twisted Logic' tour, during 'Talk', Chris Martin would take the mobile phone of an audience member and sing to the person on the other end of the line.
During the 'Rush of Blood to The Head' tour, Jonny Buckland played the harmonica during the performance of 'Don't Panic'.
